{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red217\green11\blue0;\red154\green154\blue154;\red236\green186\blue254;
\red255\green39\blue18;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh14500\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf2 Configure OSPF MD5 authentication for all the routers in area 0. \cf0 \
\cf3 \cb4 //Enter OSPF configuration mode\cf0 \cb1 \
R1(config)# router ospf 1\
\cf3 \cb4 //Set the OSPF area and authentication\cf0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 R1(config-router)# area 0 authentication message-digest \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
R2(config)# router ospf 1\uc0\u8232 R2(config-router)# area 0 authentication message-digest \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
R3(config)# router ospf 1\uc0\u8232 R3(config-router)# area 0 authentication message-digest \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Configure an MD5 key on the serial interfaces on R1, R2 and R3. Use the password MD5pa55 for key 1. \cf0 \uc0\u8232 \cf3 \cb4 //Change privilege mode to serial interface\cf0 \cb1 \
R1(config)# interface s0/0/0\
\cf3 \cb4 //Set message digest key to have md5 encrypted password\cf0 \cb1 \
R1(config-if)# ip ospf message-digest-key 1 md5 MD5pa55 \
\
R2(config)# interface s0/0/0\
R2(config-if)# ip ospf message-digest-key 1 md5 MD5pa55 \
R2(config)# interface s0/0/1\
R2(config-if)# ip ospf message-digest-key 1 md5 MD5pa55 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 R3(config)# interface s0/0/1\
R3(config-if)# ip ospf message-digest-key 1 md5 MD5pa55 \
\
\cf5 Verify the MD5 authentication configuration.\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\cf6 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
//Show the details of OSPF\cf0 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
R1#show ip ospf interface\
R2#show ip ospf interface\
R3#show ip ospf interface\
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\cf5 Enable NTP authentication on PC-A. \cf0 \
On PC-A, click NTP under the Services tab to verify NTP service is enabled. \
To configure NTP authentication, click Enable under Authentication. Use key 1 and password NTPpa55 for authentication. \
\
\cf5 Configure R1, R2, and R3 as NTP clients. # show ntp status\cf0 \
\cf3 \cb4 //Set the network time protocol server for the router\cf0 \cb1 \
R1(config)# ntp server 192.168.1.5\
R2(config)# ntp server 192.168.1.5\
R3(config)# ntp server 192.168.1.5\
\
\cf5 Configure routers to update hardware clock. # show clock\cf0 \uc0\u8232 \cf3 \cb4 //Update the calendar on the router\cf0 \cb1 \
R1(config)# ntp update-calendar\
R2(config)# ntp update-calendar\
R3(config)# ntp update-calendar\
\uc0\u8232 \cf5 Configure NTP authentication on the routers.\cf0 \
\cf3 \cb4 //Set ntp to have authentication\cf0 \cb1 \
R1(config)# ntp authenticate\
\cf3 \cb4 //Set ntp on router to use trusted key \cf0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 R1(config)# ntp trusted-key 1\
\cf3 \cb4 //set the expected key that will match the ntp server\cf0 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 R1(config)# ntp authentication-key 1 md5 NTPpa55 \
\
R2(config)# ntp authenticate\uc0\u8232 R2(config)# ntp trusted-key 1\u8232 R2(config)# ntp authentication-key 1 md5 NTPpa55 \
\
R3(config)# ntp authenticate\uc0\u8232 R3(config)# ntp trusted-key 1\u8232 R3(config)# ntp authentication-key 1 md5 NTPpa55 \
\
\cf5 Configure routers to timestamp log messages. \cf0 \
R1(config)# service timestamps log datetime msec\
R2(config)# service timestamps log datetime msec\
R3(config)# service timestamps log datetime msec\
\
\cf5 Configure the routers to identify the remote host (Syslog Server) that will receive logging messages. # show logging\cf0 \
R1(config)# logging host 192.168.1.6\
R1(config)# logging trap debugging\
R1(config)# logging on\
\
R2(config)# logging host 192.168.1.6\
R2(config)# logging trap debugging\
R2(config)# logging on\
\
R3(config)# logging host 192.168.1.6\
R3(config)# logging trap debugging\
R3(config)# logging on\
\
\cf5 Examine logs of the Syslog Server.\cf0 \
From the Services tab of the Syslog Server\'92s dialogue box, select the Syslog services button. Observe the \
logging messages received from the routers. entering and exiting global configuration mode will generate an informational configuration message.\
\
\cf5 Configure a domain name to support ssh connections.\cf0 \
R3(config)# ip domain-name ccnasecurity.com\
\
\cf5 Configure users for login to the SSH server.\cf0 \
R3(config)# username SSHadmin privilege 15 secret ciscosshpa55 
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\

\f0 \cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Configure the incoming vty lines.\cf0 \uc0\u8232 R3(config)# line vty 0 4\u8232 R3(config-line)# login local\u8232 R3(config-line)# transport input ssh\u8232 
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\

\f0 \cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Erase existing key pairs. # show ip ssh\cf0 \
R3(config)# crypto key zeroize rsa
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\

\f0 \cf5 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Generate the RSA encryption key pair. # show ip ssh\cf0 \
R3(config)# crypto key generate rsa\
\
\cf5 Configure SSH timeouts and authentication parameters.  # show ip ssh\cf0 \
R3(config)#ip ssh time-out 90\
R3(config)#ip ssh authentication-retries 2\
R3(config)#ip ssh version 2\
\
\cf5 Connect using SSH.\cf0 \
PC> ssh \'96l SSHadmin 192.168.3.1 \
\
\cf5 Connect using SSH from router.\
\cf0 R2# ssh \'96v 2 \'96l SSHadmin 10.2.2.1
\f1\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\
\

\f0\b0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
100%}